[Alerting V2][Serverless & 9.5][M2] Rule feature changes from May 2026 (#6687)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/alerting/kibana-alerting-experimental/rules/view-manage-rules.md

  serverless: experimental
products:
  - id: kibana

> description: "Use the rules list and rule details page in the {{alerting-v2-system}}: filters, search, bulk actions, and what you find in rule conditions."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Use the rules list and rule details page in the experimental alerting system."
```

---

# View and manage rules in the {{alerting-v2-system}} [manage-rules]

Rule management is part of the {{alerting-v2-system}} in {{kib}}. After a rule is created, edit its settings, pause it, remove it, and more from the page listing rules. The rules list gives you search, filter, sort, and bulk actions across all rules in the space. Selecting a rule name opens its details page, where you can review the full configuration and edit or act on it directly.

## Find and filter rules [find-filter-rules]

> Use the search bar at the top of the rules list to find rules by name or description. The search field accepts plain text; each space-separated term is matched independently (terms are AND'd) using prefix matching. Type any part of a rule name or description to narrow the list.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the search bar at the top of the rules list to find rules by name or description. The search field accepts plain text. Each space-separated term is matched independently (terms are AND'd) using prefix matching. Type any part of a rule name or description to narrow the list.
```
